Hello everyone Today I will be talking about Let's implement
useless Python objects The presentation materials for this talk are
available on my GitHub repository Also the Twitter no sorry
the X hashtag for this room is here Let me
introduce myself My name is Hayao Suzuki It is written
my name in Kanji or chinese character My Twitter No
X accounts are here I work at Be-Proud a Gold
Sponsor of PyCon APAC 2023 Let me introduce Be-Proud There
are our services connpass the networking event site Pie-Q the
best way to learn Python online tracery a system development
documentation service Now we are currently hiring Let's work with
us Recently I published a translated book from O'Reilly Japan
This book Do you have it Please buy it on
Amazon or bookstores This is my fourth time speaking at
PyCon JP For the most part I speak on topics
I like And now today's topic is Let's implement useless
Python objects Let's implement useless Python objects So yes useless
First let's review the definition of the word useless What
does useless mean Let us quote from the dictionary not
useful or effective in any way unable or unwilling to
do anything properly I see that useless is the negative
word for useful But I would like to ask all
of you here Is useless really useless Let me quote
from the ancient Chinese philosopher Zhuangzi's Renjian shi The English
word for Renjian shi is human world This is ancient
Chinese The ancient Japanese people developed a way to read
this as Japanese Translated into English it reads Everyone knows
the usefulness of the useful but no one knows the
uselessness of the useless What does this mean Useless objects
are not useful but the way we make useless objects
is useful As Zhuangzi says useless objects are useful By
the way what exactly are useless Python objects Here's an
example A LiarContainer object says it doesn't have an object
it actually has and claims to have an object it
doesn't have It is useful I think The next example
is a FibonacciSized object The len function returns the Fibonacci
sequence of the number of elements in the object It
is useful I think The another next is ShuffledIterable object
When iterated with a for statement it returns a random
result each time It is useful I think And now
there are four basic data structures in Python lists tuples
dictionaries and sets Each of these is a different data
structure but they also have some common elements In each
case the number of elements can be obtained with the
len function The in operator can be used to check
whether an element exists or not And you can iterate
with the for operator len in for How do we
create our own objects that are compatible with these operations
Let's start with the in operator To make your own
class correspond to the in operator implement the contains method
The object that corresponds to the in operator is called
Container LiarContainer is implemented to return the opposite result of
the actual in operator Thus the class has methods that
correspond to most operators and functions By implementing the appropriate
methods both useless and useful objects can be easily implemented
Next is the len function To make your own class
correspond to the len function implement the len method The
object that corresponds to the len function is also called
Sized FibonacciSized returns the Fibonacci sequence when the len function
is used to find the number of elements in an
object Since the len method only needs to return an
int value at the end it is no problem to
return the value of the Fibonacci sequence instead of the
number of elements in the data structure Yes no problem
Next is the for statement There are several ways to
realize the for statement but this time we will use
the method that implements the iter method The iter method
also only needs to return an iterator which in this
case is shuffled but it can be an empty iterator
for example or an iterator of a completely unrelated object
An object corresponding to a for statement is called an
iterable Even if an object returns only an empty iterator
it is iterable So far we have introduced objects that
correspond to in len and for statements To implement Python
objects you need to understand Python's object protocols such as
contains for in and len for len You can read
the official Python documentation and yes Python Distilled to understand
it Please buy it However it is difficult to implement
a class from scratch that satisfies the object protocol This
is where the abstract base class in collections . abc
comes in handy Container Sized and Iterable are also names
in ABC respectively Simply put you can easily implement the
class you want by inheriting from ABC that satisfies the
interface you want If you are wrong Python will tell
you And the common interface of List Tuple Dictionary and
Set is Collection The interface that satisfies Sized Container and
Iterable is Collection Simply inherit from the previous class to
complete the Collection If you do not want multiple inheritance
you may implement methods individually This is the basic section
and you can do some interesting things up to this
point but you also want to create something similar to
a list or tuple ABCs for existing data structures are
also available so you can implement your own lists and
tuples The first one is ModularSequence which is a data
structure similar to a tuple I mentioned earlier that there
are multiple ways to realize a for statement and one
way other than iter is to implement getitem ModularSequence implements
a sequence of numbers that goes on indefinitely by including
a modular calculation In this way values that should not
exist can also be retrieved It goes on infinitely so
a count or for statement would result in an infinite
loop I did it The dictionary also inherits from Mapping
ABC and simply implements the necessary methods MisprintedDictionary messes up
during initialization It may be messed up but it still
functions as a dictionary This is a dictionary It is
not ex-dictionary As you can see when you actually move
it it is in pieces But this is also a
dictionary The set should also be implemented to satisfy Set
ABC Messing up the lt method makes inclusion relations weird
As a set it is strange but as a data
structure the dictionary is implemented correctly This was a bit
rushed but I will summarize We have implemented a useless
Python object The object itself is useless but the way
it is created is useful Also by using collections .
abc we can implement it more easily The key is
the object protocol Once you understand it you are free
to go from useful to useless Thanks for your attention